Add report out post for eScience 2022 workshop (#1044)
USRSE/usrse.github.io: _posts/2023-01-17-escience-2022-report-out.md

---
layout: post
title: "Report: Research Software Engineers in eScience 2022 Workshop"
tags: [workshop, escience, 2022]
posted_by: Miranda Mundt
---

The US-RSE Outreach Working Group hosted the first RSEs in eScience Workshop
as part of the 18th International Conference on e-Science in Salt Lake City, UT.

-------

## Introduction

In October 2022, US-RSE hosted the first ever 
[Research Software Engineers in eScience Workshop](https://us-rse.org/rse-escience-2022/)
as part of the [18th International Conference on e-Science](https://www.escience-conference.org/2022/)
in Salt Lake City, UT, USA. The theme of this inaugural workshop was “Stories

> of Application of RSE Expertise to Scientific Research”. Potential speakers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of Application of RSE Expertise to Scientific Research.” Potential speakers
```

were encouraged to submit their stories about RSE solutions in eScience, RSE
contributions to software sustainability in eScience, the RSE perspective on
an eScience contribution, the non-RSE perspective of collaboration with RSEs
in eScience efforts, and more.

![eScience 2022 Logo]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/posts/2023-01-17-escience-logo.png)

> The workshop consisted of five short talks by Nicole Brewer, Sandra Gesing,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workshop started with five short talks by Nicole Brewer, Sandra Gesing,
```

Evan Harvey, Caleb Jackson, and Naeem Khoshnevis (see the [agenda](https://us-rse.org/rse-escience-2022/agenda/)
for full details and slides from the presentations). Topics included diversity, equity,

> and inclusion, experience reports on engineering for half-precision scalar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and inclusion; experience reports on engineering for half-precision scalar
```

> support, and the pros and cons of Jupyter notebooks in scientific applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
support; and the pros and cons of Jupyter notebooks in scientific applications.
```

![RSEs in eScience 2022 Agenda]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/posts/2023-01-17-rse-escience-agenda.png)

## Breakout Discussions

Following the presentations, participants split into breakout groups to discuss
two main topic areas: (1) Research challenges, concerns, and successes;

> (2) Human factors challenges, concerns, and successes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and (2) Human factors challenges, concerns, and successes. 
```

1. There is a nuance in pairing RSEs with a wider group of computational science and engineering teammates. While there has been little formal research in this, RSEs have found that there is a definite art to finding a place where they both fit the work that  needs to be done and fit the culture of the team. There will only be success when both of these are present. This leads to questions about how to structure interviews and intake interviews for RSEs.

-------

## Future Steps

The [19th International Conference on e-Science](https://www.escience-conference.org/2023/)
takes place October 9-13, 2023, in Limassol, Cyprus. The US-RSE Outreach
working group intends to submit a proposal for this conference, ideally
with more international organizers and program committee members.

--------

### Acknowledgements

We want to say a special thank you to the four members of the organizing committee:

- Miranda Mundt, Sandia National Laboratories, USA
- Ian Cosden, Princeton University, USA
- Lance Parsons, Princeton University, USA

> - Daniel S. Katz, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, USA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Daniel S. Katz, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA
```
